hey everyone I know that many of you are
applying to business school and are
about to take Chima I've been there and
I took my achievements in 2014 and my
decision to do an MBA was pretty
spontaneous because I made a decision
that yes I'm going to study in the
United States at the end of October and
I was taking my GMAT on December 25th
now I concentrated mostly on the
quantitative and verbal part and only at
the end of my preparation I realized
that there is also an essay and
integrated reasoning section but then I
started to dig into this s same thing
and I realized it doesn't really affect
your score so it doesn't matter how much
your score on the essay there's 700 or
750 or whatever you scored during your
verbal and quantitative part would not
be affected by the essay essay actually
stands as a separate note on your GMAT
score report then I started to read
different blogs and forums where the
universities actually care about how
much you scored to your writing section
and I realized that universities would
mostly care about your quantitative
verbal part and there are you know kind
of business schools that maybe be
interested in your writing score or your
overall performance having that
information in mind I would spend two to
three hours preparing for my writing
section and I really concentrated on my
quota even verbal parts and I scored
five on my writing section and at the
time ownership team at it gave me 60
percent which is pretty decent because
I'm not a native speaker and I also had
700 on my GMAT overall and that was
enough for me to get into the University
of my dreams and get
full financial assistance to pursue my
MBA and I want to share with you my
strategy of handling the GMAT essay now
the first thing you need to know is that
writing section is all the same they
would actually give you a paragraph or a
statement and they would tell you to
discuss it but what this means
discussing is actually disagreeing with
a statement and you would need to prove
that it's insufficient that the
statements are made on wrong or
insufficient assumptions your essay has
to consist of five paragraphs in the
first paragraph you tell what's actually
going on second third and fourth
paragraph you disagree with different
parts of the statement and in the fifth
paragraph you summarize everything now
it's important to remember that second
third and fourth paragraph depict your
ideas each paragraph stands for an idea
and it's really important to make sure
that each paragraph is of the same
volume because otherwise they might
think that some of your ideas are not
really well developed now I'm going to
use a specific example I'm going to read
the task I'm going to give you the exact
templates that you can use for all of
the GMAT essays and these templates
actually help me to do what I've done
prepare for that section in two hours
and get a pretty decent score and here's
the statement following appeared in the
editorial section of a local newspaper
this past winter 200 students from
Weimer State College traveled to the
State Capitol building to protest
against proposed cuts in funding for
various State College programs the other
12,000 waymarsh students evidently
weren't so concerned about their
education the either state or campers
all left winter break since the group
who did not protest is from the numerous
it is more representative of the state's
college students that are the protesters
therefore the state legislature need not
heed the appeals of the protesting
students discuss how reason this is blah
blah blah so this is
typical of treatment they give you some
statement and in you to discuss it now
as I said in the first paragraph you
need to state what you actually read and
in the first paragraph I say the
argument claims and this is what you
need to learn so you start with a phrase
the argument claims that the same
legislation you don't hear the appeals
or protesting students since the group
who did not protest is found on numerous
coma now you need to explain that you've
actually got the data that is in the
article and this is the second phrase
you need to remember the conclusion of
the argument is based on the premise
remember that then 12,000 former
students who did not protest words are
concerned about their education we're
still in the first paragraph and now I'm
giving you the phrase how to finish it
the conclusion of the argument relies on
assumptions who wish there is no clear
evidence
hence the argument is unconvincing and
has several flaws and I basically
learned that sentence because when you
have the structure in mind you just need
to insert several things from the essay
or from the article and this is how you
write the essay so basically give you a
1/2 of the first paragraph and try to
remember those phrases now we'll move on
to the second paragraph where you have
your first thought and you have to be
convincing so I start with a phrase
first the argument readily assumes that
the students who have know taken part in
the process of protest weren't concerned
about their education however don't
forget of those linking words is super
important it bends to mention other
factors which could affect students
decision concerning their participation
protest for example and still the
Pressburger 200 students that have
traveled to the state capitol building
could have been appointed as other
students representatives now these are
my thoughts so I'm trying to argue with
the article because I'm not sure that
making the right conclusions and I'm
using you know my ideas for that so for
example I thought that maybe those other
twelve thousand students are pointing
those two hundred students to travel and
protest on their side and then another
phrase you have to remember the author
fails to mention now with all those
phrases you're going to show that you
disagree with the article it doesn't
rely on enough data the ortho fails to
mention the laws that regulate protests
the legal number of people taking part
in protests might have been limited in
compliance with these laws also another
argument that I thought of now we go to
the second paragraph and here's my
second thought second and again the
phrase you need to remember the argument
could have been much clearer if so I
start with this phrase and this is what
you have to do stir in your second
paragraph with the exact same phrase
that would really help you structure
your ideas second the argument could
have been much clearer if it provided
information on any other similar protest
aroused by proposed cuts in funding for
various state college programs now you
can always appeal to the thing that the
article only describes one case always
try to mention that it doesn't describe
other processes and how they you know
which results they brought in so always
use that kind of comparative method then
another phrase in each remember in fact
it is not at all clear in fact this is
not an unclear if similar actions were
also taken by students of other colleges
affected by proposed cuts and now we go
to the third paragraph
finally the argument fails to mention
one of the key factors on basis of which
it could be evaluated and this is
actually the whole phrase that you need
to learn I repeat it once again and you
see it on the screen so please feel free
to stop the video and write everything
down so you have a paper and actually
have a paper that you can carry with you
and repeat things before you actually
take the test
finally the argument fails to mention
one of the key factors on based on which
it could be evaluated namely if any of
12 thousand students who haven't taken
part in the pros protest are enrolled in
the programs which would be effective
should the car take place and this was
my third paragraph I think it's a little
shorter than the second one so really
what I do I would also add something
else to the third paragraph and the last
paragraph without this information the
idea remains unsubstantiated and open to
debate and you can always finish with
the exact same phrase is in the exact
same words now I'm going to write the
whole thing down and please feel free to
take the phrases written down and have
something like this for yourself as well
guys I really hope that this video was
helpful and let me know if you have any
other questions concerning GMAT I will
be happy to film more if you're
interested in that topic and I wish you
all the best and getting to your dream
credit business schools and please don't
forget to subscribe to my channel to
stay tuned with other teammate videos
and I'll see you soon thank you for
watching this bye bye
you